---
id: "stream-shapes"
sidebar_position: 2
title: "Stream Shapes"
---

import FunctionPlot from "@site/src/components/FunctionPlot";

:::note

The code used to generate the gas benchmarks for the different stream curves can be found
[here](https://github.com/sablier-labs/examples/tree/shapes-benchmark).

:::

## Lockup Linear

Lockup Linear streams are the simplest token distribution curve in Sablier. The streamed amount over time follows a
straight line that goes up and to the right on a graph, which corresponds to the identity function $f(x) = x$:

<FunctionPlot options={{ data: [{ fn: "x", color: "#f77423" }] }} />

With this shape of stream, the payment rate remains constant, meaning that the same fraction of the deposit amount is
streamed to the recipient every second. This provides greater predictability and is easy to understand because of how
intuitive it is. Imagine a diagonal line going up and to the right – that's how simple it is.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _150,000_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

### Cliffs

It is possible to attach a "cliff" to a Lockup Linear stream, which sets a cut-off point for releasing tokens. Prior to
the cliff, the recipient cannot withdraw any tokens, but the stream continues to accrue them. After the cliff, the
constant payment rate per second kicks in.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      { fn: "0", range: [0, 25], color: "#f77423" },
      { fn: "x", range: [25, 100], color: "#f77423" },
      {
        points: [
          [25, 0],
          [25, 25],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

This feature is especially useful for vesting ERC-20 tokens as it allows you to have, for example, a 1-year cliff, and
then 3 additional years of linear streaming. If the stream is for an employee, you can make it cancellable so that if
the employee leaves your company during the stream, you can cancel it and recover the tokens that have not yet been
streamed.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _150,000_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

## Lockup Dynamic

Lockup Dynamic streams are what makes Sablier so unique, since they enable the creation of an arbitrary streaming curve,
including non-linear curves.

On the Sablier Interface, we support only some distribution shapes (the ones enumerated below), but the potential for
innovation is limitless when you interact programmatically with the contracts. For example, one could design a
logarithmic stream that emulates the $f(x) = log(x)$ function.

These streams are powered by a number of user-provided [segments](/concepts/lockup/segments), which we will cover in the
next article. What is important to note here is that with Lockup Dynamic, Sablier has evolved into a universal streaming
engine, capable of supporting any custom streaming curve.

:::note

If you are interested in learning how to programmatically create the curves shown below in Solidity, check out the
[examples](https://github.com/sablier-labs/examples/blob/main/lockup/LockupDynamicCurvesCreator.sol) repository.

:::

### Exponential

A fantastic use case for Lockup Dynamic is Exponential streams, a shape through which the recipient receives
increasingly more tokens as time passes.

<FunctionPlot options={{ data: [{ fn: "(x/70)^6 * 12", color: "#f77423" }] }} />

Exponentials are a great fit if you are looking to airdrop tokens, because your community members will receive the
majority of the tokens towards the end of the stream instead of receiving the tokens all at once (no streaming) or in a
linear fashion (Lockup Linear). This incentivizes long-term behavior and a constructive attitude.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _213,610_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

### Cliff Exponential

Another use case for Lockup Dynamic is a variation of the previous design: an Cliff Exponential.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      { fn: "0", range: [0, 50], color: "#f77423" },
      { fn: "(x/70)^6 * 9.6 + 18.672", color: "#f77423", range: [50, 100] },
      {
        points: [
          [50, 0],
          [50, 20],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

The stream starts with a cliff (which can be how long you want), a specific amount instantly unlocked when the cliff
ends, and then the rest of the stream is exponentially streamed.

This is an excellent distribution if you are a company looking to set up a token vesting plan for your employees. Your
employees will have an incentive to remain with your company in the long run, as they will receive an increasingly
larger number of tokens.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _264,854_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

### Timelock

The Timelock shape locks all tokens for a specified period. Users cannot access the tokens until the set period elapses.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      {
        points: [
          [0.01, 0.01],
          [90, 0],
          [90, 99.7],
          [99.99, 99.99],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Once the set period elapses, the full amount becomes accessible to the recipient. This setup is particularly
advantageous for projects seeking to stabilize token pricing and minimize market volatility, encouraging investors to
maintain their stake over a more extended period.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _239,232_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

### Unlock Linear

The Unlock Linear shape combines an initial immediate release of tokens with a steady, linear payout over time. This
shape is ideal for employment contracts that include a signing bonus along with a regular payout schedule.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      { fn: "25", range: [0, 0.15], color: "#f77423" },
      { fn: "(x-0.15)*0.75015 + 25", range: [0.15, 100], color: "#f77423" },
      {
        points: [
          [0.15, 0],
          [0.15, 25],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

At the beginning of the stream, a fixed amount of tokens is instantly available to the recipient — this is your "signing
bonus". Following this, the remaining tokens begin to stream continuously at a consistent rate until the end of the
contract term — this is your "salary".

Another use case is a token distribution to investors where a particular amount gets unlocked immediately followed by a
linear vesting plan.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _239,232_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

### Unlock Cliff

This shape is useful for companies who want to distribute tokens to their investors using a cliff followed by linear
vesting but also want to unlock some liquidity at the beginning to be able to allow investors to bootstrap AMM pools.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      { fn: "0", range: [0, 50], color: "#f77423" },
      { fn: "x", color: "#f77423", range: [50, 100] },
      {
        points: [
          [0.15, 0],
          [0.15, 25],
          [50, 25],
          [50, 50],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Initially, a set amount of tokens are made available to the recipient as an upfront payment. After this initial unlock,
the tokens are held during the cliff period until the moment of time set. The release resumes in a linearly post-cliff.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _290,477_ on Mainnet. This may vary due to multiple factors.

:::

## Lockup Tranched

Lockup Tranched streams are, as the name says, streams that have token unlocks in tranches. Even though you can use
Lockup Dynamic to create a traditional vesting structure with periodic unlocks, Lockup Tranched is specifically design
for that use case. As a result, a stream with tranches created using Lockup Tranched is more gas efficient than the same
stream created using Lockup Dynamic.

These streams are powered by a number of user-provided [tranches](/concepts/lockup/tranches), which is covered in the
tranches article.

### Unlock in Steps

You can use Lockup Tranched to create a traditional vesting contract with periodic unlocks. In this case, the
"streaming" rate would not be by the second, but by the week, month, or year.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    data: [
      {
        points: [
          [0.01, 0.01],
          [25, 0],
          [25, 25],
          [50, 25],
          [50, 50],
          [75, 50],
          [75, 75],
          [99.99, 75],
          [99.99, 99.99],
        ],
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

After each period, a specific amount becomes unlocked and available for the recipient to withdraw. Past unlocks
accumulate, so if the recipient doesn't withdraw them, they will be able to withdraw them later.

The advantage of using Unlock in Steps instead of a normal vesting contract is that Sablier automates the entire
process. No more worries about setting up vesting contracts or creating a user interface for your investors to claim
their tokens.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _392,982_ on Mainnet for four unlocks. This may vary as there are
multiple factors to consider.

:::

### Unlock Monthly

Unlock Monthly is a special case of Unlock in Steps where tokens are unlocked on the same day every month, e.g. the 1st
of every month. This is suited for use cases like traditional monthly salaries or ESOPs plans.

<FunctionPlot
  options={{
    xAxisLabel: "x - Months",
    xDomainLimit: 12,
    yDomainLimit: 120,
    data: [
      {
        fnType: "points",
        graphType: "polyline",
        color: "#f77423",
        points: Array.from({ length: 24 }, (_, i) => [
          1 + Math.floor(i / 2),
          10 * Math.floor(i / 2) + (i % 2 === 1 ? 10 : 0),
        ]),
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Each month, on a particular day, a specific amount of tokens becomes unlocked and available for withdrawal. Like Unlock
in Steps, unwithdrawn tokens will carry over to the next period, providing flexibility and control to the recipient.
This shape is ideal for employers who wish to set up advanced payment schedules for their employees, offering them
access to funds on a predictable, monthly basis.

:::info

The gas cost to create this shape is approximately _803,150_ on Mainnet for a period of exactly **one year**. This may
vary as there are multiple factors to consider.

:::
