---
id: "merkle-airdrops"
sidebar_position: 5
title: "Merkle Airdrops"
---

import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";
import { links } from "@site/src/constants";

:::note

You can refer to the [airdrop section](/concepts/use-cases#merkle-airdrops) of our use-cases page to learn more about
the benefits of streaming airdrops.

:::

There are three types of airdrop campaigns that you can setup using Sablier Merkle Airdrops.

## Instant Airdrop

Instant airdrops is the traditional way of running airdrops where there's no vesting period and tokens can instantly be
claimed by the recipients.

Eligible users receive airdrop tokens directly into their wallets at the claim time.

## Airstreams

Airstreams are vested airdrops in which instead of airdropping the entirety of the token allocation all at once, airdrop
recipients receive a fraction of the tokens every second through a Sablier stream.

The gist of Airstreams is that instead of airdropping the entirety of the tokens all at once, airdrop recipients receive
a fraction of the tokens every second through a token stream.

The beauty of it is that airdrop recipients are forced to think long-term and keep the project's future as their first
and foremost priority. They are forced to, because instead of receiving all the tokens at once, they receive them over
time in our user-friendly [Airstreams interface](https://app.sablier.com/airdrops).

:::info

An airdrop campaign can have a claim window of a few days, months, or even years. Alternatively, they can have no
expiration. In case of Airstreams, you could, for example, configure the airdrop of your new token to vest over years,
but the recipients get the streamed tokens only if a claim is made within that period of time.

:::

Airstreams not only create the right incentives for token holders, but also prevent them from dumping their tokens on
day one, as has been the case for many airdrops in the past.

There are two types of Airstream campaigns that you can create using Merkle Airdrop.

### Ranged Airstreams

This either uses Lockup Linear model or Lockup Tranched model depending on whether you use `MerkleLL` or `MerkleLT` to
create the campaign. In Ranged Airstream campaigns, the vesting begins for all the recipients at the same time. This
time had to be provided while creating the campaign.

### Non-Ranged Airstreams

In Non-Ranged Airstream campaigns, the vesting begins at the time of claiming. In this case, all recipients can have
different start time for Vesting depending on when they claim.

## White Label Solution

Sablier Labs does not currently offer any white label solutions for Merkle Airdrops. This means that you cannot have
your logo displayed in the claim page seen by the airstream recipients.

However, we are actively exploring implementing this feature. Fill out <Link href={links.forms.call}>this form</Link>
and we will respond as soon as possible.

## How it Works

Thanks to our battle-tested token distribution protocol, you can create Airdrop campaigns for thousands of recipients in
a few clicks using our interface. Recipients and their airdropped allocations can be set by uploading a simple CSV
spreadsheet in the [user interface](https://app.sablier.com/airdrops).

The spreadsheet feature is the perfect fit for merkle airdrop campaigns: it allows you to upload a CSV file with tens of
thousands of recipients and the interface will let each of these recipients claim with ease. You can download a tempalte
of the CSV file [here](https://files.sablier.com/templates/airstream-template.csv).

Another great advantage is that creating an airdrop campaign with thousands of recipients won't ruin you in terms of gas
fees. When launching a campaign, a contract is deployed only storing the merkle root. Thus, users pay the gas fee to
claim their airdrop. This is made possible by a data structure called Merkle Tree, which efficiently summarizes and
verifies the integrity of large sets of data.

:::info

The contracts that implements Airstream Campaigns are called
[`MerkleLL`](/reference/airdrops/contracts/contract.SablierMerkleLL) and
[`MerkleLT`](/reference/airdrops/contracts/contract.SablierMerkleLT). If you are interested into Instant Airdrop
Campaign, the contract code can be found [here](/reference/airdrops/contracts/contract.SablierMerkleInstant).

:::

When you create an Airdrop campaign, all you are doing is deploying a contract that allows for the recipients you put in
to prove that they are eligible, and create a stream if they are. That's all it is.

Additionally, you don't have to immediately fund the Campaign contract. You can just create the contract and at a later
date fund it with the airdropped tokens.

**This has three great implications:**

1. **Recipients pay for the gas fees themselves to create the stream**, when they claim (the claim action creates the
   stream). Creating a campaign with thousands of recipients would be incredibly costly if you had to pay for all the
   gas fees.
2. **You keep full control over unclaimed Tokens**. If a recipient doesn't claim their airdrop, it's not created, and
   you remain in full control over their allocation.

   - This applies only if the campaign has an expiration date. If there is no expiration date, you can only clawback
     during the grace period, and the recipients can claim their airdrop at any time in the future.

3. **You can retrieve your funds in case of misconfiguration**. There is a grace period during which you can retrieve
   unclaimed funds. The grace period ends 7 days after the first claim is made. This is useful in case where you have
   incorrectly configured the campaign or deposited more tokens than required.

Once the campaign is launched, recipients can claim their airdrop and withdraw the underlying tokens that have already
been streamed at any time using the Sablier Interface at [app.sablier.com](https://app.sablier.com).

## Diagram

If you want to have a detailed look into how these campaigns work at the contract level, you can head over to the
[Diagrams page](/reference/airdrops/diagrams).
