---
id: "airstreams"
sidebar_position: 6
title: "Airstreams"
---

:::note

You can refer to the [airdrop section](/concepts/use-cases#airdrops) of our use-cases page to learn more about the
benefits of streamed airdrops.

:::

## Why Airstreams?

The gist of Airstreams is that instead of airdropping the entirety of the tokens all at once, airdrop recipients receive
a fraction of the tokens every second through a token stream.

The beauty of it is that airdrop recipients are forced to think long-term and keep the project's future as their first
and foremost priority. They are forced to, because instead of receiving all the tokens at once, they receive them over
time in our user-friendly [Airstreams interface](https://app.sablier.com/airstreams).

:::info

An airstream can have a claim window of a few days, months, or even years. Alternatively, they can have no expiration.
You could, for example, configure the airdrop of your new token to vest over years, but the recipients get the streamed
tokens only if a claim is made within that period of time.

:::

Airstreams not only create the right incentives for token holders, but also prevent them from dumping their tokens on
day one, as has been the case for many airdrops in the past.

With Airstreams, airdrop recipients receive a fraction of the tokens every second only after they claim the stream.
Subsequently, they have to submit withdrawal transactions from the stream.

## White Label Solution

Sablier Labs does not currently offer any white label solutions for Airstreams. This means that you cannot have your
logo displayed in the claim page seen by the airstream recipients.

However, our partner TokenOps can help with this. You can check out their website [here](https://tokenops.xyz/) and get
in touch with them on [Telegram](https://t.me/@fabio_tokenops).

## How it Works

Thanks to our battle-tested token distribution protocol, you can create Airstreams for thousands of recipients in a few
clicks using our interface. Recipients and their airdropped allocations can be set by uploading a simple CSV spreadsheet
in the [user interface](https://app.sablier.com/airstreams).

The spreadsheet feature is the perfect fit for airstreams: it allows you to upload a CSV file with tens of thousands of
recipients and the interface will automatically create a new airstream for each of these recipients. You can download a
tempalte of the CSV file [here](https://files.sablier.com/templates/airstream-template.csv).

Another great advantage is that creating an Airstream campaign with thousands of recipients won't ruin you in terms of
gas fees. When launching a campaign, a contract is deployed, and Airstreams are only created when they are claimed by
each Airstream recipient. This is made possible by a data structure called Merkle Tree, which efficiently summarizes and
verifies the integrity of large sets of data.

:::info

The contract that implements an Airstream Campaign is called `MerkleLockup`. For those interested in the technical part,
[click here](/contracts/v2/reference/periphery/contract.SablierV2MerkleLL).

:::

When you create an Airstream campaign, all you are doing is deploying a contract that allows for the recipients you put
in to prove that they are eligible, and create a stream if they are. That's all it is.

Additionally, you don't have to immediately fund the Airstream contract. You can just create the contract and at a later
date fund it with the airdropped tokens.

**This has three great implications:**

- **Recipients pay for the gas fees themselves to create the stream**, when they claim (the claim action creates the
  stream). Creating a campaign with thousands of recipients would be incredibly costly if you had to pay for all the gas
  fees.
- **You keep full control over unclaimed Airstreams**. If a recipient doesn't claim their Airstream, it's not created,
  and you remain in full control over their allocation.
  - This applies only if the campaign has an expiration date. If there is no expiration date, the recipients can claim
    their Airstreams at any time in the future.
- **You don't have to fund the campaign from the get go**. You can deploy the campaign contract now, and fund it at a
  later date when you feel comfortable doing so. There is no rush.

Once the Airstream campaign is launched, recipients who have claimed can withdraw the tokens which have already been
streamed at any time using our interface at [app.sablier.com](https://app.sablier.com).

## Diagram

Here's a diagram showing how an Airstream campaign works:

![Diagram](/img/diagram-airstream-campaign.png)
