---
id: "airstreams"
sidebar_position: 7
title: "Airstreams"
---

:::note

Please refer to the [airdrop section](/concepts/use-cases#airdrops) of our use-cases page for an explanation regarding
why streaming an airdrop makes sense.

:::

## What are Airstreams?

The gist of Airstreams is that instead of airdropping the entirety of the tokens all at once, airdrop recipients receive
a fraction of the tokens every second through a token stream.

The beauty of it is that airdrop recipients are forced to think long-term and keep the project’s future as their first
and foremost priority. They are forced to, because instead of receiving all the tokens at once, they receive them over
time.The gorgeous Airstreams interface

:::info

An airstream can have a duration of a few days, weeks, months and even years. You could, for example, vest the airdrop
of your new token over 4 years. Or 6 months. You get to choose.

:::

Airstreams not only create the right incentives, but also ensure that the price of your token won’t crash on day one.
This has been the case for many airdrops, where a large percentage of the airdrop recipients dumped immediately after
claiming their tokens.

With Airstreams, airdrop recipients only receive a fraction of the tokens every second, and have to manually claim the
tokens which have already been streamed.

## How It Works

Airstreams can be linear (recipients receive the same amount every second) or exponential (recipients receive
exponentially more over time)… You choose.

Thanks to our battle-tested token streaming/distribution protocol, you can quickly create Airstreams for thousands of
recipients in a few clicks using our interface. Recipients and their respective airdrop allocations can be added by
uploading a simple CSV spreadsheet to the interface

Our spreadsheet feature is the perfect fit for airstreams: it allows you to upload a CSV file with tens of thousands of
recipients and the interface will automatically create a new airstream for each of these recipients.

Another great advantage, is that creating an Airstream campaign with thousands of recipients won't ruin you in terms of
gas fees, on the contrary. When launching a campaign, a contract is deployed, and streams are only created when the
Airstreams are claimed by the Airstream recipients. This is done using a system called _Merkle Distributor_, which is
backed by a Merkle Tree.

:::note

The contract that implements an Airstream Campaign is called `MerkleStreamer`. For those interested in the technical
part, [click here](/contracts/v2/reference/periphery/contract.SablierV2MerkleStreamerLL).

:::

When you create an Airstreams campaign, all you are really doing is creating a contract that allows for the recipients
you put in to prove that they are eligible, and create an Airstream if they are. That's all it is.

Additionally, you don't have to immediately fund the Airstream contract. You can first create the contract, and at a
later date fund it with the tokens to be streamed over.

**This has three great implications:**

- **Recipients pay for the gas fees themselves to create the stream**, when they claim (the claim action creates the
  stream). Creating a campaign with thousands of recipients would be incredibly costly if the campaign creator had to
  pay for all the gas fees.
- **You keep full control over unclaimed Airstream token allocations**. If a recipient doesn't claim their Airstream,
  it's not created, and you remain in full control over that token allocation.
- **You don't have to fund the campaign directly in order to deploy it**. You can deploy the campaign contract now, and
  fund it at a later date when you feel comfortable doing so. There is no rush.

Once the Airstream campaign is launched, recipients who have claimed can withdraw the tokens which have already been
streamed at any time using our interface.The deployment page, the last step when launching an Airstream campaign.

![](/img/diagram-airstream-campaign.png)
